# Attendance-system-using-face-recognition
Attendance system using the face recognition technique 
The main task of our proposed system is to detect and recognize the image of the student and mark the attendance accordingly in the excel file. Also can capture the new entries if needed. Further our system can perform all the basic operations like create, read, delete, edit, search etc. The system captures all the person’s faces and store it in the database, when the person come in front of the camera it captures the image and match it with the images in the database if matches it will mark the attendance. The main aim of the system is to mark the attendance but using image processing when the student enter into the class room then the attendance of student for particular lecture is mark. We are going to developed the system so when the particular student enter his own details then the details are match with the data based details as the match found the then the student can also able to see the present and absent lecture also able to see the percentage. The system consists of a camera that captures the images of the students sitting in the classroom and sends it to the image enhancement module. In the image enhancement module, images are enhanced so that matching can be performed easily. After enhancement, the image comes in the Face Detection and Recognition modules and then the attendance is marked in the database. At the time of enrolment, templates of face images of individual students are stored in the Face database. Here all the faces are detected from the input image and the algorithm compares them one by one with the face database. If any face is recognized the attendance is marked in the database from where anyone can access and use it for different purpose. We run the program and the camera captures the image of the student and matches it with the list of students in the database, if the image matches then the system mark the attendance for the student automatically.
